## In other industries what does FAANG look like?
If we look at car manufactoring, banking or medicine who are the elites and what do they do different? 

How do they measure "Developer Productivity"

## You become like the team you join
Maybe in [[Project Aristotle]] they say you go to the level of the team you join.
How does that relate to the saying "vand i syre er uhyre, syre i vand det går an".

Maybe we need an extreme amount of "DevOps" in order to dilute what was there before?

## What was there before?
What was there before DevOps? Before Agile?
Is DevOps an extension, a transformation or a substitution?

What new activities, capabilities do we introduce?
What do we remove?

## What if not everyone is a software company

Or even technology company?

When electricity was introduced, I do not suppose everyone suddenly considered themselves electricity companies? Or necessarily technology companies.

Not all orgs has to innovate on software, or software engineering.

Why is there software in our product? Or why do we make software to use inside?
Is it to innovate our product, to make our product more efficient? To make making our product more efficient? Cheaper?

Is the software an enabler? Critical? Or "just" an easier(?), more modern way of doing the same thing?

## Over time all movements degrade to the tools they introduce 

We had Continuous Delivery. Now we have Jenkins and GitHub Actions.
We had Test Driven Development, now we have... Bazel and JUnit.
We had DevOps, now we have Cloud.
We had SRE, now we have ... Grafana and Argo CD.
We had Platform Engineering and now we have Kubernetes.
We had DevEx, now we have Backstage.
We had Agile, now we have Scrum and SAFe.

If we are lucky, the tool encodes good practices and principles from the movement. The tool is opinionated and makes it easier to _live those values_ that came with the movement. 
But Kubernetes.

All our tools are bad abstractions, all our tools fail to impose constraints on us. Everything is possible in all the tools, thus they are bad.

## Tools feels like structure, but is it?
[[Structure and Dynamics]]
Maybe tools feels like the static pillars, but actually represent something that is quite dynamic.
Tools should encode the structure, but again referring to the lack of constraints and over generalisation, they fail to do so. See [[Kubernetes is Not a platform it is a platform building platform]]. It is not obvious to me, whether there is some sort of cross organisational [[Alignment Trap]]  going on consistently. Maybe the only succesful open source software projects are those that was first developed internally. Then it has direction and opinion before being extended beyond recognition to solve all the problen in the universe.

## Github Copilot
Does generative AI mostly help with the spelling part, the foundational skills, the hygiene work rather than the strategic or creative part?

Does it help free up more capacity for the creative work?

Having better and better spellcheckers and thesauruses is unlikely to vastly improve the quantity of great writes, those it may raise the average level. And make it much easier to become a mediocre writer.

Great writers may even use those tools, but maybe more in a way that consistently help them work in an abstraction level that is further distanced from grammar.

How does this relate to [[Shu Ha Ri]]? A great writer knows when to introduced grammatical errors or malpractices to improve the story.

## Why are we so obsessed why measuring developer productivity?

Is it related to feeling like an outcome metric, while being an output metric?
That could be extrapolated to a dangerous concept in itself.
It is related to using academic language in order to sound thorough, complete and concrete, while you wind up hiding that you are not those things through vague and ambiguous language.

What is developer productivity a proxy for?

Should we look more at efficacy, efficiency and effectiveness, at the team level?
Where does sustainability fit into that?

Maybe it is nice to show that my reports are productive, if I do not want to be held accountable for the outcomes.

## It is about the software, not the code

If that is true, it does not matter how easy it is to write the code. It matters how easy it is to make the software run. How much effort is there in making the source code become software?
I think that is what Heroku got right, and so many others are still getting wrong.

People are also more likely to have more experience in writing code, over running, testing, deploying, releasing, monitoring and so on. 

And we feel like it is closer to our domain to write code than ensuring our service is running and well.

But if we care about making our users happy, a necessary extension of that is that we _must_ care about the software, not just the code!

It is much easier to iterate on running software, than to get to the point you can iterate. So make it easier to get to the point where you can iterate. Maybe this is the real gold in Serverless.

## Dashboard Driven Development
If we are not changing a metric why are we even do the work?
Forsgren talk at Jenkins World I think, references Microsoft study that shows they would have been better off not doing half of their work or something like that.

## Why is it important to write better code
And what does better code even mean?
If we refer to dashboard driven development, what metrics does better code drive, that are not out metrics.

I appreciate that writing the same code faster is a net positive.

Is the importance of writing better code, that what happens after the code the has been committed takes too much time and is too flaky. The code is malleable, the software is not? Why is that and how can we change that?

How do we tie the code quality to the software quality?

There are different quality dimensions at different points in the software lifecycle.
Code needs to be easy to change, software needs to be easy to run.
Code needs to be correct, software needs to be valuable to the users.

## OpsDev

You are not primarily responsible for the code, you are primarily responsible for the software, or the service.

Write code is a tactic or supporting function. You are more Ops than Dev.

## Tools increase cognitive load
Why?
Mik+1 on Github copilot, mentioning tools like splunk and datadog, and stating that the tools increase the cognitive load, and the users then need to be experts in more things. And then using AI to somehow mitigate that a bit.

If the tools increase the overall cognitive load, I think we are doing something wrong, or I am misunderstanding something.

It may be that it is difficult to use a log aggregation tool, but solving the same tasks without those tools hopefully represents a higher cognitive load?

Is Cognitive Load a constant background value, or is it bursting with mental effort. That is can I solve task Foo with high or low cognitive load given how much time I spent on it? Or is the cognitive load the starting fee I pay to even solve task Foo?

If the tools are increasing the total cognitive load, is it then because the tool is bad, because we are doing more things, because we built the wrong abstractions or because we simply now have the cognitive load made explicit?
