## What if applications were pokémon
Not all applications are legendary. There are many common ones.

What pokémon are there then and what are their types and evolutions?

When do we go from a service, or set of services to a system? 
## Website
- Static Website _becomes_
- Blog _becomes_
- CMS _becomes_
- Web 2.0 ?
## Mobile Application
- Static App _becomes_
- App with a backend _becomes_
- App with authenticated users _becomes_
- Multi platform application ?

What if you built your nextgen cloud v2 around these simple times of applications.
You have a migration path onto the next level of complexity.


# Onsite workshops as coldreading
I sense there is someone in the room that has experienced a bad agile transformation

## Is the reason tools are the leftovers because they are visible?
Tools are the how, process is the what and why is the.. important thing du jeur.
Maybe we need nested Simon Sineks Start with Why. We may also need to know why our why is important ..

The experiment where a few actors started in a waiting room, and rose every time a new person entered the room. After some time there are no more actors, but the group still rises every time someone enters.

But if there are good reasons for why we are doing the thing, what happens when we lose context and the why. 
Context and the why are obviously heavily related and hard to maintain. Culture is probably anchored in individuals, and as these pass on both the why and the context dissappears and we are left with only the code and the tools.

